README.md, before:

# Python utilities for NVIDIA Jetson

## Jetson Control Utility

The purpose of this utility is to let users control NVIDIA Jetson boards
for automation. It talks to the Jetson boards via an FTDI chip integrated
on some developer kit baseboards. Refer to developer kit documentation to
determine if your developer kit or baseboard supports this feature.

This utility has been validated on the following platforms:
- Jetson AGX Xavier

### Dependencies

The Jetson control utility is written for Python 3 and doesn't implement
backwards compatibility with Python 2. It primarily relies on the Python
standard library, but uses the pyftdi library to communicate with FTDI
chips. You can obtain pyftdi from [Pypi](https://pypi.org/project/pyftdi)
or [Github](http://github.com/eblot/pyftdi).

Most distributions don't provide a package for pyftdi, unfortunately, so
you'll have to manually install it using pip:

```
$ pip install pyftdi
```

Alternatively, use your preferred method to install pyftdi.

### Usage

``jetson-control`` will use the first available FTDI chip that can be found.
There is also a mechanism to pick a specific instance identified by its
serial number.

Each invocation of ``jetson-control`` executes a single command, which makes
it well suited for scripting.

### Commands

To find out which devices exist on a system run the ``devices`` command.
It lists all the compatible devices found on the USB bus.

Buttons can be controlled using the ``press`` and ``release`` commands,
each of which take the name of the button to control as a parameter.

The following buttons are defined:

* ``power``: press to power up the device, press and hold for 10
  seconds to force power off
* ``reset``: pressing this button puts the device into reset, release to
  boot
* ``recovery``: must be pressed before the ``reset`` button is released
  or when the ``power`` button is pressed in order to enter recovery
  mode
* ``force-off``: forces the device off immediately

The utility supports reading, writing and erasing the EEPROM using the
``eeprom`` command. Several sub-commands are available, such as ``read``
to save the EEPROM contents into a file, specified as an argument,
``write`` to flash the contents of a file, specified as an argument, or
``erase`` to erase the EEPROM. The ``dump`` and ``show`` commands can be
used to read the EEPROM and show a hexdump or a decoded version,
respectively.

Some boards support querying the state of the core and the CPU power
rails. This can be done using the ``power-rail`` command. An optional
argument can be used to specify the name of the rail to query. If no
value is specified, the status for all power rails will be shown.

## Tegra Combined UART Demuxer

The Tegra Combined UART is used on Jetson AGX Xavier and platforms based
on the Xavier SoC to multiplex the log output of several producers on the
SoC (CCPLEX, BPMP, ...). While it is possible to capture the entirety of
the log output from the UART with a terminal emulator, doing so can make
the output unreadable.

The ``jetson-demux`` utility creates pseudo terminal master/slave pairs for
each of the streams multiplexed onto a given UART. The content of each stream
is then sent to the corresponding PTY, which can be connected to using your
favorite terminal emulator. Input from the PTY is transmitted back via the
TCU, allowing bi-directional communication.

Launch the demuxer by running:

```
$ jetson-demux --device /dev/ttyUSBX
```

Where ```/dev/ttyUSBX``` corresponds to the UART that receives the
multiplexed streams from the TCU. This command will show a list of PTYs
that have been created, one for each of the TCU streams. Connect to the
stream of interest by passing the path to the PTY to your favorite
terminal emulator.

Commit message:

Add more clarity for user on how to install
When I was trying the utility, I find difficulty to use the scripts. I though the bin files are standalone and can be used as it is even without using the installation. So, I am trying to add some more hints to users who are going to use the utility and not an expert in python

README.md, after:

# Python utilities for NVIDIA Jetson

## Jetson Control Utility

The purpose of this utility is to let users control NVIDIA Jetson boards
for automation. It talks to the Jetson boards via an FTDI chip integrated
on some developer kit baseboards. Refer to developer kit documentation to
determine if your developer kit or baseboard supports this feature.

This utility has been validated on the following platforms:
- Jetson AGX Xavier

### Dependencies

The Jetson control utility is written for Python 3 and doesn't implement
backwards compatibility with Python 2. It primarily relies on the Python
standard library, but uses the pyftdi library to communicate with FTDI
chips. You can obtain pyftdi from [Pypi](https://pypi.org/project/pyftdi)
or [Github](http://github.com/eblot/pyftdi).

Most distributions don't provide a package for pyftdi, unfortunately, so
you'll have to manually install it using pip:

```
$ pip install pyftdi
```

Alternatively, use your preferred method to install pyftdi.
Note that if by default python 2 is intalled in your system, make sure to install pip3 and python3. And run all commands with 3 appended binaries.

```
$ sudo apt-get install python3
$ sudo apt-get install python3-pip
$ pip3 install pyftd
```

### Installation

Once you hace cloned the git. install the jetson modules with the following commands.

```
$ python3 setup.py install
```

### Usage

``jetson-control`` will use the first available FTDI chip that can be found.
There is also a mechanism to pick a specific instance identified by its
serial number.

Each invocation of ``jetson-control`` executes a single command, which makes
it well suited for scripting.

### Commands

To find out which devices exist on a system run the ``devices`` command.
It lists all the compatible devices found on the USB bus.

Buttons can be controlled using the ``press`` and ``release`` commands,
each of which take the name of the button to control as a parameter.

The following buttons are defined:

* ``power``: press to power up the device, press and hold for 10
  seconds to force power off
* ``reset``: pressing this button puts the device into reset, release to
  boot
* ``recovery``: must be pressed before the ``reset`` button is released
  or when the ``power`` button is pressed in order to enter recovery
  mode
* ``force-off``: forces the device off immediately

The utility supports reading, writing and erasing the EEPROM using the
``eeprom`` command. Several sub-commands are available, such as ``read``
to save the EEPROM contents into a file, specified as an argument,
``write`` to flash the contents of a file, specified as an argument, or
``erase`` to erase the EEPROM. The ``dump`` and ``show`` commands can be
used to read the EEPROM and show a hexdump or a decoded version,
respectively.

Some boards support querying the state of the core and the CPU power
rails. This can be done using the ``power-rail`` command. An optional
argument can be used to specify the name of the rail to query. If no
value is specified, the status for all power rails will be shown.

## Tegra Combined UART Demuxer

The Tegra Combined UART is used on Jetson AGX Xavier and platforms based
on the Xavier SoC to multiplex the log output of several producers on the
SoC (CCPLEX, BPMP, ...). While it is possible to capture the entirety of
the log output from the UART with a terminal emulator, doing so can make
the output unreadable.

The ``jetson-demux`` utility creates pseudo terminal master/slave pairs for
each of the streams multiplexed onto a given UART. The content of each stream
is then sent to the corresponding PTY, which can be connected to using your
favorite terminal emulator. Input from the PTY is transmitted back via the
TCU, allowing bi-directional communication.

Launch the demuxer by running:

```
$ jetson-demux --device /dev/ttyUSBX
```

Where ```/dev/ttyUSBX``` corresponds to the UART that receives the
multiplexed streams from the TCU. This command will show a list of PTYs
that have been created, one for each of the TCU streams. Connect to the
stream of interest by passing the path to the PTY to your favorite
terminal emulator.
